are you unable to do a pull-up today I'm
going to teach you how you can work your
way from June absolutely no pup's to
being able to do your very first pull-up
and you should want to learn how to do
pull-ups
because pulls are amongst the best back
exercises you can do not only do the ad
size assistance strength but they're
also excellent for shoulder mobility
today I'm going to teach a beginner how
to do a free-form assisted pull-up this
is all you need to do an assisted
freeform pull-up a giant rubber band
seriously that's what it is what you
could do I'll post a link in the
description where you could get one but
you're going to take this rubber band
and set it up like so you wrap it around
and put them this in slow motion because
I go fast I'm an expert so you wrap it
around and then you loop it through and
what you're going to do is wiggle it
just a little bit until it's tight
because you're going to put your knee
through this and that rubber band is
going to take some of your weight away
from the exercise allowing you to do an
assisted pull-up without having to rely
on the Machine a free-form assisted
pull-up is far superior so now let's go
over the basics this is the actual
pull-up as you see I put my knee right
through it it's helping to displace some
of my body weight and then I just go
ahead and do the proper pull-up don't
worry if you've never done a pull-up
before I'm going to break down the form
right now once again in slow mo because
everything is cool in slow mo so hands a
little bit wider than shoulder width
apart
watch my shoulder blades BAM right there
you might want to review that what I did
is pinched the shoulder blades back and
then down keeping it tight scapula tight
retracted shoulder blades
okay pinching them together my elbow
position is down my chest is up I'm
pulling and squeezing and pulling as
hard as I can with those hands
so you retract the shoulder blades you
pull back and down so you're coming up
you explode up keeping that upright
chest position here it is from a front
angle my chest is up it's pulling
towards the actual bar my elbows are
down and my shoulder blades are back
that's how you probably do the pull-up
I'm going to show multiple angles so the
key essential point I want to mention
however is with the resistance band the
rubber band that you use to assist with
the pull-up you might want to start off
with a heavier rubber band so start off
perhaps with two and once you get better
you could go from there so by two you
know thirty pounds
listed pull-up bands it depends on you
your body weight how strong your butt by
to use those two and as you get stronger
use only one after you become strong
enough and the one feels easy go to
freeform pulps I'm going to show you a
free-form pull-up in a second here
once the assisted pull-up is very easy
go into freeform pulps use the exact
same technique except this time without
a rubber band so retract the shoulder
blades that's the number one tip pull-up
and together squeeze tight with the
hands watch I go little slower so you
can see keep the chest up guys that's
how you do a pull-up now you are well on
your way to doing actual pull-up I hope
this video helped you guys up make sure
like share with friends and subscribe my
mountain climbers in training I'll see
you in the next video
[Music]